[MUSIC]
>> Jafar Husain: Who has a familiar
at least with JavaScript 6, or
what's sometimes called ES6?
A few people here, okay.
The language spec for
JavaScript 6 is technically called ES 2005
now days, has just sort of been finalized.
And you're gonna start to see
these features in browsers,
being introduced in browsers.
But one that I wanna call
your attention to today,
and the one maybe if you got a late,
a really new version of browser.
You might actually be able to use is
JavaScript now has a new shorthand syntax
for function, so
that you can take this and
convert it into this, much, much nicer.
So today, we are gonna be
writing a lot of functions.
So I happen to know the latest
version of Firefox supports this.
So if while I'm talking here,
you wanna go and
download Firefox because later we're gonna
be filling out interactive exercises.
I think it would actually help you cuz
you can use this arrow function there.
You can always use Chrome if you want to,
whatever you're comfortable with.
I believe the Canary of Chrome
may support this already.
So shorthand for writing functions, I'm
just gonna go through that one more time
and get rid of all the boilerplate and
just write it like this.
So we'll come back to this.
But yes, so that is the end
of the JavaScript 6 tutorial.
That's all you need to know for
this particular presentation.
So first function of 6 that I'm
be teaching you today forEach,
who here has used forEach?
So you'll notice the next few functions
I'm gonna be showing you are all on
arrays.
In fact, today we are probably
not gonna get to covering
any asynchronous programming whatsoever.
We are going to be doing what I like
to call wax on, wax off exercises.
We are going to learn something,
which may not seem as if it's related to
asynchronous programming at first,
which is how to program without loops.
Let's say today that if I was to say you
can't use any loops when you go into to
work on Monday.
Could you still get your job done?
No while loops, no for loops.
No do while loops, no cheating.
How many of you feel like yeah,
I could probably get my job done?
A couple people out there, but generally,
I think most people are pretty
comfortable using loops, right.
We might be a lost a little bit if our
programming language didn't have loops.
Well, when you start
doing async programming,
that's exactly the world you're in.
You can't repeat an asynchronous
function with a loop, and
I'll explain a little bit more about that
later, but that's effectively the world
that we're in as soon as we start
doing larger asynchronous programming,
larger synchronous programs,
loops become useless to us.
So we need to find ways of
repeating actions, right?
And processing streams of data as they
come in without using loops and these,
this is what I'm gonna be
teaching you guys today.
Programming without loops using
just a few simple functions.
So what forEach does is
it takes a function, and
it applies that function
to every item in an array.
In this case, I'm just printing each
one of these items to the console,
using console.log.
That's relatively straightforward even if
you want you have a JavaScript Interpreter
up right now, maybe in the console,
you can play around with
that very example yourself.
Unfortunately, if your browser
doesn't support error function,
you gotta write it the long
way function x return.
Next, I'm gonna introduce
you to the map function.
The map function,
similar to the forEach function,
except the difference is what map
does is it takes a function and
applies it to every item in a collection,
creating a new value.
And then creates a new array with all
the results of applying that function to
each value in the array.
So map does not change the array.
And I wanna call your attention to this
notion, this thing very specifically.
None of the functions I'm gonna be
showing you today change arrays.
What they do are create new arrays.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
apply this function to every item in
the collection and create a new
collection containing the results.
So if we run this, we get 2, 3, 4.
So we didn't change the original array.
We actually created a whole new array.
So if you ever wanna transform
every item in a collection and
put it into a new collection,
map's the tool for the job.
Next we wanna talk about filter.
Filter is very similar to map.
It's going to apply a function
to every item in the array,
the difference is this
function is a test function.
Instead of transforming the value,
it's going to apply a test
to every single value.
And only if that value passes the test,
will it make it in to the new collection.
So here if I run this,
we actually get an entirely new array.
We didn't change the original array.
I'm gonna keep hammering this
point cuz it's really important.
We haven't changed the original array.
We just created a new one with only
those items that pass the test.
Does that make sense everybody?
Great, just a quick question here
at the end of current section,
will ES4,
I guess I can talk about this later.
But for of lists will talk
about that when we resume.
ConcatAll.
So concatAll is not in JavaScript.
It's a function we're actually gonna write
later on and add to the array object.
But what concatAll does is very simple.
It takes a multidimensional array and
flattens it by one dimension.
So in this case,
we've got a two-dimensional array.
And if I run this, it's going to get
flattened into a two-dimensional array.
Now I wanna call your
attention to something.
It's gonna be important later on.
Notice what happens to an empty
array in a two-dimensional
array when it gets flattened.
It just disappears.
You take an empty collection inside
of a two-dimensional collection, and
you flatten it,
that empty collection goes away.
We'll see why that's important later on.
So quick review, map/filter/concatAll.
One thing I wanna mention is concatAll
will not recursively flatten
deep collections.
If you have a three-dimensional
collection,
it'll turn into
a two-dimensional collection.
If you have a five-dimensional collection,
it'll turn to a four-dimensional
collection, and so on and so on.
It doesn't recursively flatten and
dimension collections.
So map for transforming every item into
an array, every item into an array,
into a new collection.
Filter applies a function to every item in
the array, and only if it passes the test,
does it make it into a new array.
And concatAll, flattens multidimensional
collections by one dimension.